---
title: "Got Oil?"
date: 2002-10-22 12:01:33 -04:00
categories: [Politics]
permalink: /2002/10/got-oil.html
---

<p><a href="http://www.ariannaonline.com/columns/files/102102.html">Arianna says</a>, if we&#8217;re going to run those stupid &#8220;drug users fuel terrorism&#8221; ads, why not run ones that really say who pays for terrorism &#8212; gas guzzling American cars.  I would donate money to run these ads:</p>
<blockquote>So how about using the same shock-value tactics the administration uses in the drug war to confront the public with the ultimate &#8212; and much more linearly linked &#8212; consequences of their energy wastefulness? Imagine a soccer mom in a Ford Excursion (11 mpg city, 15 mpg highway) saying, &#8220;I&#8217;m building a nuclear bomb for Saddam Hussein.&#8221; Or a mob of solo drivers toodling down the freeway at 75 mph shouting in unison, &#8220;We&#8217;re buying weapons that will kill American soldiers, marines, and sailors! Yahoo!&#8221;<br />
<br />
It&#8217;s not just a fantasy. Last week, talking to my friend Scott Burns, co-creator of the &#8220;Got Milk?&#8221; campaign, I was delighted to hear that he already had two ad scripts ready to go. The first one feels like an old Slim Fast commercial. Instead of &#8220;I lost 50 pounds in two weeks&#8221; the ad cuts to different people in their SUVs: &#8220;I gassed 40,000 Kurds,&#8221; &#8220;I helped hijack an airplane,&#8221; &#8220;I helped blow up a nightclub,&#8221; and then in unison: &#8220;We did it all by driving to work in our SUVs.&#8221;<br />
<br />
The second, which opens on a man at a gas station, features a cute kid&#8217;s voice-over throughout: &#8220;This is George.&#8221; Then we see a close up of a gas pump. &#8220;This is the gas George buys for his car.&#8221; Next we see a guy in a suit. &#8220;This is the oil company executive who makes money on the gas George buys.&#8221; Close up on Al-Qaeda training film footage: &quot;This is the terrorist organization supported by money from the country where the oil company does business. &quot; It&#8217;s followed by footage of 9/11: &#8220;We all know what this is.&#8221; And it closes on a wide shot of bumper to bumper traffic: &#8220;The biggest weapon of mass destruction is parked in your driveway.&#8221; Pretty effective.</blockquote>
<p>Remember that the Bush administration found time in its busy schedule this month to <a href="http://www.quicken.com/investments/news_center/article/printer.dcg?story=NewsStory/dowJones/20021009/ON200210092110000866.var">weigh in on the side of Detroit</a> in a lawsuit against California&#8217;s stricter automobile mileage regulations.</p>
