---
title: "More wandering in Austria - Styria"
date: 2002-09-23 13:18:21 -04:00
categories: [Travel]
permalink: /2002/09/more-wandering.html
---

<p>We drove through pretty countryside in Styria today, having lunch at a tasteful, attractive restaurant called Pilz Stub&#8217;n at the edge of Filzmoos  There was a table of three older ladies in once corner, drinking coffee and trying their recently purchases chocolates from Salzburg (about an hour&#8217;s drive away).  They also got into a discussion with the waiter on different types of coffee that the restaurant made &#8212; expresso vs. coffee vs.  &#8220;kleiner Brauner&#8221;.  I think the kleiner Brauner is just espresso served with a tiny pitcher of cream on the side.  We had a traditional soup native to the area (and rarely found) called farfel-suppe.  It&#8217;s a broth made by boiling smoked beef, plus dumplings with little bits of the beef.  We talked to the waiter when he asked where we were were from, where we were travelling, etc.  When we mentioned New York, he said it was a beautiful city, but it wasn&#8217;t for him, since he was a &#8220;Bergkind&#8221; (mountain child).</p>
<p>I&#8217;m amazed by how carefully resources are used here, compared to the <span class="caps">USA</span>.  Over time, as the world starts to have conflicts over resource limits, this area of the world is going to work out things much better than our country.  Clothes made of expensive wool or leather (like trachten &#8212; traditional clothing &#8212; epecially home-made) have different prices based on size.  I also see recycling bins, for separating different types, everywhere &#8212; including gas stations.</p>
<p>There are so many details like this &#8212; clean bathrooms, well-maintained roads even in rural areas, public transit available even between villages with hundreds of people &#8212; that make Germany and Austria, and most of Europe, so attractive.  I know many of my friends don&#8217;t really understand my Euro-philia, but I think the things one sees after travelling here regularly, especially if you have a little bit of money and don&#8217;t have to &#8220;backpack it&#8221;, make one realize what a rich, thoughtful society is capable of.  I&#8217;m very frustrated that a country as rich as the <span class="caps">USA</span> manages its resources and public infrastructure so badly.  The quality of life is so high here for people, even if they don&#8217;t have a lot of money.</p>
<p>I see on the news that Bush isn&#8217;t sending congratulations to Schroeder on being re-elected as Chancellor of Germany.  Apparently it&#8217;s anti-American to disagree with the policies of an <a href="http://www.commondreams.org/views02/0922-02.htm">out of control president</a> who wasn&#8217;t even elected with a majority of votes.  I hope the rest of the world realizes that many Americans are horrified by Bush and this march to war.</p>
