---
title: "Billy Budd + some Museums in Vienna"
date: 2002-09-28 18:25:09 -04:00
categories: [Travel]
permalink: /2002/09/billy-budd-some.html
---

<p>Last night we went to see Britten&#8217;s &#8220;Billy Budd&#8221; at the Vienna Staatsoper.  The cast and music were great, but the design and production were lousy.  Simon Keenlyside was a very attractive (and beautiful-sounding) Billy Budd, James Morris (Wotan in the Met&#8217;s Ring) was Claggart, and Michael Roider was an excellent Captain Vere.  I think the Captain is the most interesting (and sympathetic) character in a pretty depressing opera.  I had heard it on the radio before, but I had never seen it live.  I hadn&#8217;t realized how blatant the homoerotic aspects of the opera are, and I&#8217;m amazed by what Britten got away with.  At one point Claggart sings about his &#8220;depravity&#8221; while musing on the beauty of Billy Budd.   The audience was much better-dressed than a Met audience, even the teenagers.</p>
<p>Afterward we went to the Palmenhaus, which is a restaurant in a Jugendstil greenhouse with at least 50&#8217; ceilings.  The food was excellent, but it was SO <span class="caps">LOUD</span>.</p>
<p>Oops, I forgot to mention that when we were at the Staatsoper to buy our Billy Budd tickets, we went to Arcadia, the opera CD store on the ground floor.  I bought Malcom McLaren&#8217;s &#8220;Fans&#8221; album.  It seemed appopriate.</p>
<p>We went to see the <a href="http://www.secession.at">Vienna Secession</a> building this morning and saw a beautiful work by Gustav Klimt called the Beethoven Frieze.  It&#8217;s a visual interpretation of Beethoven&#8217;s Ninth Symphony.  Klimt has never been one of my favorite artists of that era &#8212; I&#8217;m more partial to Egon Schiele &#8212; but this was fabulous.  In the shop you could buy a snowglobe with the building in it.</p>
<p>Next we visited the Academy of Fine Arts to see the Bosch Last Judgement Tryptich, and then went on to the Imperial Apartments at the Hofburg.  I don&#8217;t normally do so much museum stuff on vacation, but there are so many important works here that I would never see in <span class="caps">NYC</span>.  After lunch we saw the Imperial Apartments in the Hofburg.  We had drinks afterward at  <a href="http://www.diehalle.at/index.php4">Halle</a>, a beautiful cafe/restaurant at the Kunsthalle filled with attractive people (including the waiters).  We also walked around the new MQ (Museum Quartier), a collection of buildings near the Hofburg being changed into spaces to be used for temporary contemporary art projects.</p>
<p>We had dinner again tonight at Neu Wien &#8212; this time for me to have my first Wiener Schitzel in Vienna.  It&#8217;s a really great restaurant, with slightly nouvelle cuisine, good wines and service, and a really attractive space.</p>
<p>All of the public squares and parks in Vienna have statues of famous artists who spent time in Vienna &#8212; composers, writers, poets, etc.  New York should really do the same.</p>
