---
title: "Chomsky interview"
date: 2002-10-10 12:02:19 -04:00
categories: [Politics]
permalink: /2002/10/chomsky-intervi.html
---

<p>Znet has a very informative <a href="http://www.zmag.org/content/showarticle.cfm?SectionID=15&ItemID=2422">interview</a> with Noam Chomsky on Iraq.  He sounds pretty reasonable for a man many paint as a lefty fanatic madman.</p>
<p>A few highlights:<br />
<blockquote>Saddam&#8217;s worst crimes, by far, have been domestic, including the use of chemical weapons against Kurds and a huge slaughter of Kurds in the late 80s, barbaric torture, and every other ugly crime you can imagine. These are at the top of the list of terrible crimes for which he is now condemned, rightly. It&#8217;s useful to ask how frequently the impassioned denunciations and eloquent expressions of outrage are accompanied by three little words: &#8220;with our help.&#8221;</p>
<p>The crimes were well known at once, but of no particular concern to the West. Saddam received some mild reprimands; harsh congressional condemnation was considered too extreme by prominent commentators. The Reaganites and Bush 1 continued to welcome the monster as an ally and valued trading partner right through his worst atrocities and well beyond. Bush authorized loan guarantees and sale of advanced technology with clear applications for weapons of mass destruction (<span class="caps">WMD</span>) right up to the day of the Kuwait invasion, sometimes overriding congressional efforts to prevent what he was doing. Britain was still authorizing export of military equipment and radioactive materials a few days after the invasion. When <span class="caps">ABC</span> correspondent and now ZNet Commentator Charles Glass discovered biological weapons facilities (using commercial satellites and defector testimony), his revelations were immediately denied by the Pentagon and the story disappeared. It was resurrected when Saddam committed his first real crime, disobeying US orders (or perhaps misinterpreting them) by invading Kuwait, and switched instantly from friend to reincarnation of Attila the Hun. The same facilities were then used to demonstrate his innately evil nature. When Bush 1 announced new gifts to his friend in December 1989 (also gifts to US agribusiness and industry), it was considered too insignificant even to report, though one could read about it in Z magazine at the time, maybe nowhere else. A few months later, shortly before he invaded Kuwait, a high-level Senate delegation, headed by (later) Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole, visited Saddam, conveying the President&#8217;s greetings and assuring the brutal mass murderer that he should disregard the criticism he hears from maverick reporters here. Saddam had even been able to get away with attacking a US naval vessel, the <span class="caps">USS</span> Stark, killing several dozen crewmen. That is a mark of real esteem. The only other country to have been granted that privilege was Israel, in 1967. In deference to Saddam, the State Department banned all contacts with the Iraqi democratic opposition, maintaining this policy even after the Gulf war, while Washington effectively authorized Saddam to crush a Shi&#8217;ite rebellion that might well have overthrown him &#8212; in the interest of preserving &#8220;stability,&#8221; the press explained, nodding sagely.</p>
<p>That he&#8217;s a major criminal is not in doubt. That&#8217;s not changed by the fact that the US and Britain regarded his major atrocities as insignificant in the light of higher &#8220;reasons of state,&#8221; before the Gulf war and even after &#8212; facts best forgotten. </blockquote></p>
