---
title: "9/11 Chair: Attack Was Preventable"
date: 2003-12-18 10:39:05 -05:00
categories: [War]
permalink: /2003/12/911-chair-attac.html
---

<p>Spread the word.  I&#8217;m concerned that Thomas Kean, the Bush-chosen head of the 9/11 commission, can say these things and only one major network (<a href="http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2003/12/17/eveningnews/main589137.shtml"><span class="caps">CBS</span></a>) has mentioned it so far.</p>
<blockquote>For the first time, the chairman of the independent commission investigating the Sept. 11 attacks is saying publicly that 9/11 could have and should have been prevented, reports <span class="caps">CBS</span> News Correspondent Randall Pinkston.<br />
<br />
&#8220;This is a very, very important part of history and we&#8217;ve got to tell it right,&#8221; said Thomas Kean.<br />
<br />
&#8220;As you read the report, you&#8217;re going to have a pretty clear idea what wasn&#8217;t done and what should have been done,&#8221; he said. &#8220;This was not something that had to happen.&#8221;<br />
<br />
Appointed by the Bush administration, Kean, a former Republican governor of New Jersey, is now pointing fingers inside the administration and laying blame.<br />
<br />
&#8220;There are people that, if I was doing the job, would certainly not be in the position they were in at that time because they failed. They simply failed,&#8221; Kean said.<br />
<br />
&#8230;<br />
<br />
Asked whether we should at least know if people sitting in the decision-making spots on that critical day are still in those positions, Kean said, &#8220;Yes, the answer is yes. And we will.&#8221;<br />
<br />
Kean promises major revelations in public testimony beginning next month from top officials in the <span class="caps">FBI</span>, <span class="caps">CIA</span>, Defense Department, National Security Agency and, maybe, President Bush and former President Clinton.</blockquote>
<p>__</p>
<p>Plus, a couple of <a href="http://www.pulsetc.com/article.php?sid=795">statistics</a>:</p>
<p>Amount spent on Whitewater investigation: $100 million<br />
Amount spent on 9/11 investigation to date: $3 million</p>
