---
title: "Drawn In"
date: 2003-03-09 02:07:50 -05:00
categories: [Politics]
permalink: /2003/03/drawn-in.html
---

<p>This is one of my favorite artists&#8217; anti-war things I&#8217;ve heard about &#8212; <a href="http://www.geocities.com/aawnion/">Drawn In</a> &#8212; which happened on March 5.</p>
<blockquote> We invite artists and others around the world to gather on Moratorium Day, March 5, in their local museums which exhibit ancient near eastern art. In New York, this action will take place from 9:30 to 5:30 in the<br />
Assyrian gallery at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.<br />
<br />
We will respectfully draw with pencil on paper the art around us, which was created as early as five thousand years ago in the land now known as Iraq, where urban life and the written word originated.Our goal is to call attention to all of the civilizations which have flourished in Mesopotamia under so many names and cultures: Sumer, Babylonia, Assyria, the Arab/Muslim Abbasid Empire and  contemporary Iraq.<br />
<br />
This is a peaceful vigil, made in protest against US foreign policy under George W. Bush. If someone asks what we are doing, we will speak quietly with them and explain our position, then continue to draw. We will keep in mind the intention:  to pay homage to this land, culture and people, which our government is planning to destroy. We are deeply concerned about an imminent threat to human life, and to the memory and history embedded in all of Mesopotamia, modern Iraq.</blockquote>
<p>The web site has pictures of the action.</p>
