---
title: "$1.5 billion for marriage?!"
date: 2004-01-14 15:58:12 -05:00
categories: [Politics]
permalink: /2004/01/15-billion-for.html
---

<p>A few juxtapositions, for your reading pleasure:</p>
<p>From the <a href="http://www.nytimes.com/2004/01/14/politics/campaigns/14MARR.html?hp=&pagewanted=all&position=">NY Times</a> front page today (emphasis mine):</p>
<blockquote>Administration officials say they are planning an extensive election-year initiative to promote marriage, especially among low-income couples, and they are weighing whether President Bush should promote the plan next week in his State of the Union address.<br />
<br />
For months, administration officials have worked with conservative groups on the proposal, which would provide at least $1.5 billion for training to help couples develop interpersonal skills that sustain &#8220;healthy marriages.&#8221;<br />
<br />
&#8230;<br />
<br />
The proposal is the type of <strong>relatively inexpensive</strong> but politically potent initiative that appeals to White House officials at a time when they are squeezed by growing federal budget deficits.<br />
<br />
&#8230;<br />
<br />
Dr. Horn said that federal money for marriage promotion would be available only to heterosexual couples. As a federal official, he said, he is bound by a 1996 statute, the Defense of Marriage Act, which defined marriage for any program established by Congress. The law states, &#8220;The word `marriage&#8217; means only a legal union between one man and one woman as husband and wife.&#8221;<br />
<br />
But Dr. Horn said: &#8220;I don&#8217;t have any problem with the government providing support services to gay couples under other programs. If a gay couple had a child and they were poor, they might be eligible for food stamps or cash assistance.&#8221;</blockquote>
<p>Via <a href="http://www.talkleft.com/archives/005426.html">TalkLeft</a>, some excerpts from testimony in Neil Bush&#8217;s divorce trial:</p>
<blockquote>Bush: &#8220;I had sexual intercourse with perhaps three or four, I don&#8217;t remember the exact number, women, at different times. In Thailand once, I have a pretty clear recollection that there was one time in Thailand and in Hong Kong.&#8221;<br />
<br />
Brown: &#8220;And you were married to Mrs. Bush?&#8221;<br />
<br />
Bush: &#8220;Yes.&#8221;<br />
<br />
Brown: &#8220;Is that where you caught the venereal diseases?&#8221;<br />
<br />
Bush: &#8220;No.&#8221;<br />
<br />
Brown: &#8220;Where did you catch those?&#8221;<br />
<br />
Bush: &#8220;Diseases plural? I didn&#8217;t catch&#8230;&#8221;<br />
<br />
Brown: &#8220;Well, I&#8217;m sorry. How &#8230; how many venereal diseases do you suffer from?&#8221;<br />
<br />
Bush: &#8220;I&#8217;ve had one venereal disease.&#8221;<br />
<br />
Brown: &#8220;Which was?&#8221;<br />
<br />
Bush: &#8220;Herpes.&#8221;<br />
<br />
Brown then interrogates Bush&#8217;s about his various sex partners:<br />
<br />
&#8220;Did you pay them for that sex?&#8221;<br />
<br />
Bush: &#8220;No, I did not.&#8221;<br />
<br />
Brown: &#8220;Pick them up in a sushi house?&#8221;<br />
<br />
Bush: &#8220;No. &#8230; My recollection is, where I can recall, they came to my room.&#8221;<br />
<br />
Brown: &#8220;Do you know the name of that hotel? I may go to Thailand sometime.&#8221;</blockquote>
<p><a href="http://www.nea.gov/about/02Annual/toc.html">FY 2002 Federal spending</a> for the National Endowment for the Arts: $95,835,000.</p>
