---
title: "Fresh Tracks at Dance Theater Workshop"
date: 2004-11-26 23:38:30 -05:00
categories: [Culture]
permalink: /2004/11/fresh-tracks-at-1.html
---

<p>My favorite regular event at <a href="http://www.dtw.org/"><span class="caps">DTW</span></a> is <a href="http://www.dtw.org/dy_eventDetails.cfm?ID=39">Fresh Tracks</a>, as I have <a href="/2003/06/fresh-tracks-at.html">said before</a>.</p>
<p>It&#8217;s described on the site as:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>Created in 1965, Fresh Tracks is Dance Theater Workshop&#8217;s longest-running series of new dance and performance. Featuring works by emerging choreographers and performance artists selected through open auditions by a panel that includes artists, producers and critics, the six artists selected possess unusual potential and striking imagination.</p>
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<p>Fresh Tracks has helped to identify and launch the careers of such well-known choreographers as Bebe Miller, Molissa Fenley, Bill T. Jones, Wendy Perron, David Parsons, Donald Byrd and Anne Teresa de Keersmaeker, among others.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>We went tonight.  The performers were Allen Body Group, Felicia Ballos, Jonah Bokaer, Jeremy Laverdure, Daniel Linehan, Yoko Sugimoto and Yuka Kikuchi.  We went mostly because we know Felicia Ballos.</p>
<p>For us, the two best performances of the evening were the ones by Daniel Linehan and Felicia.  Daniel Linehan&#8217;s performance, titled <em>Digested Noise</em>, was a solo choreographed by him, with a (mostly) non-verbal sound accompaniment  generated by him as well.  There were grunts, hums, clicks, and the occasional word or phrase, such as &#8220;Go! Stay!&#8221; or what seemed to be a reference to an attack.  It was dazzling.  Watch for that name.  He is a young one, having graduated from the University of Washington in Seattle last spring, and I would expect him to go far.</p>
<p>Felicia Ballos&#8217;s work was titled <em>Fragile Lodging</em>.  There was supposed to be a video component by Anna Craycroft, but there were technical difficulties and she performed without it.  I don&#8217;t want to insult anyone, but it felt like a complete work anyway.  Her disjointed movements and vague, odd facial expressions (including gum-chewing) had the audience quite enthralled.  Her face was so compelling in the performance that I had to remind myself that her body was doing things too and I couldn&#8217;t only watch her face.</p>
<p>It repeats tomorrow night (Saturday) at 7:30.  It&#8217;s the best $20 you&#8217;ll spend all weekend.</p>
